.TH VMWARE\-HGFSMOUNTER 8 "2010\-04\-08" "2010.03.20\-243334" "Open VM Tools"

.SH NAME
vmware\-hgfsmounter \- program for mounting HGFS shares

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmount.vmhgfs\fR \fISHARE\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR [ \-o \fIOPTIONS\fR ]
.br
\fBvmware\-hgfsmounter\fR \fISHARE\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR [ \-o \fIOPTIONS\fR ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a console\-based mount helper application. It mounts the HGFS share, specified by name, to a local directory. Share names must be in host:dir format.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "uid=\fIARGUMENT\fR" 4
mount owner (by uid or username)
.IP "gid=\fIARGUMENT\fR" 4
mount group (by gid or groupname)
.IP "fmask=\fIARGUMENT\fR" 4
file umask (in octal)
.IP "dmask=\fIARGUMENT\fR" 4
directory umask (in octal)
.IP "ro" 4
mount read\-only
.IP "rw" 4
mount read\-write (default)
.IP "nosuid" 4
ignore suid/sgid bits
.IP "suid" 4
allow suid/sgid bits (default)
.IP "nodev" 4
prevent device node access
.IP "dev" 4
allow device node access (default)
.IP "noexec" 4
prevent program execution
.IP "exec" 4
allow program execution (default)
.IP "sync" 4
file writes are synchronous
.IP "async" 4
file writes are asynchronous (default)
.IP "mand" 4
allow mandatory locks
.IP "nomand" 4
prevent mandatory locks (default)
.IP "noatime" 4
do not update access times
.IP "atime" 4
update access times (default)
.IP "nodiratime" 4
do not update directory access times
.IP "adirtime" 4
update directory access times (default)
.IP "ttl=\fIARGUMENT\fR" 4
time before file attributes must be revalidated (in seconds). Improves performance but decreases coherency. Defaults to 1 if not set.

.SH EXAMPLES
This command is intended to be run from within /bin/mount by passing the option '\-t vmhgfs'. For example:
.PP
	mount \-t vmhgfs .host:/ /mnt/hgfs/
.br
	mount \-t vmhgfs .host:/foo /mnt/foo
.br
	mount \-t vmhgfs .host:/foo/bar /var/lib/bar

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIvmware\-checkvm\fR(1)
.br
\fIvmware\-hgfsclient\fR(1)
.br
\fIvmware\-toolbox\fR(1)
.br
\fIvmware\-toolbox\-cmd\fR(1)
.br
\fIvmware\-user\fR(1)
.br
\fIvmware\-xferlogs\fR(1)
.br
\fIlibguestlib\fR(3)
.br
\fIlibvmtools\fR(3)
.br
\fIvmware\-guestd\fR(8)
.br
\fIvmware\-user\-suid\-wrapper\fR(8)
.br
\fIvmblock\fR(9)
.br
\fIvmci\fR(9)
.br
\fIvmhgfs\fR(9)
.br
\fIvmmemctl\fR(9)
.br
\fIvmsock\fR(9)
.br
\fIvmsync\fR(9)
.br
\fIvmxnet\fR(9)
.br
\fIvmxnet3\fR(9)

.SH HOMEPAGE
More information about vmware\-hgfsmounter and the Open VM Tools can be found at <\fIhttp://open\-vm\-tools.sourceforge.net/\fR>.

.SH AUTHOR
Open VM Tools were written by VMware, Inc. <\fIhttp://www.vmware.com/\fR>.
.PP
This manual page was put together from homepage materials by Daniel Baumann <\fIdaniel.baumann@progress-technologies.net\fR>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
